# Plant Care Planner
#### Video Demo: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l9FF48JVZyQ>
#### Description:
Plants were always a part of my life, but since my second child was born and I haven't come back to work for one year, my collection of plants suddenly expanded to one hundred pots.
I wanted to see them thrive, but with less time and many other duties, it wasn't able to manage it.
Different plants have different demands. Some need watering every week, other dry out very long time. Many plants need rich nutrients to grow healthy, but some given too much won't survive. 
I tried to organize watering and fertilizing with notebook, but eventually got tired and lost track of it. I felt disappointment I couldn't meet my plants demands. 
This app was made to help people, who same as me love their plants but can't check them every day and would be glad to have some helping hand to take care of them. 
It is also very convenient to have all plants in one place and have this confidence, that everything is under control. It could be also useful during absence at home, when other person need to take care of them.

##### Technology - introduction:
I decided to build my web application with technologies that I'm already familiar
thanks to CS50x Introduction to Computer Science Course. Backend I've built on Python Flask framework,
frontend is made with use of HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Jinja and JS.
For purposes of CS50x Final Project I've decided to use sqlite3 in-file database.
At first, I've tried to do it on MySQL, but free hosted databases are limited, and I couldn't
find one meeting my needs.

I've decided to learn new IDE and develop my application locally. I decided to use Jetbrains
PyCharm that was very useful and helpful both in developing frontend and backend part.
I needed to install python and many libraries to make it possible locally.

For history and version control I've used private repository on GitHub.

As deployment platform I've used Heroku Cloud Application Platform.

GitHub and Heroku were integrated and any changes made locally and pushed
to remote repository were automatically available on Heroku during development.

##### Technological stack - backend:
In my Sqlite3 database I've used may data types including DATE,
DATE_TIME and default values of some fields.

I used many Python libraries listed below: 
- Flask~=2.2.2 
- Flask-Session
- Flask-Mail
- Pillow
- gunicorn
- cs50
- werkzeug

Flask-Mail I used for implementation of e-mail confirmation feature. Application generated
unique TOKEN was part of a URL, and another flask endpoint id responsible for analyzing if confirmation
link was clicked in set time (24 hours). (Token generated by secrets library.)

Pillow I used for uploading pictures of flowers in Planner feature.

Gunicorn was there just to enable deploying application on Heroku.

CS50 I used because of friendly SQL support.

I've found many usages of werkzeug library - it's very powerfully.
I used 'werkzeug.security' for hashing passwords, 'werkzeug.exceptions' for handling HTTPExceptions and
'werkzeug.utils' for reading filename when working with saving pictures.

I used also regex for pre-validation of e-mail and password.

##### Technological stack - frontend:
On frontend, I've used HTML 5 with bootstrap 5.2.3 and classic custom CSS styles.

From interesting bootstrap feature I used carousel to display pictures in Inspirations.
It is a slideshow for cycling through series of content using a bit of pre-written JavaScript.

I used Event Listener in Planner to prepare miniature of uploaded picture just after choosing file,
but before uploading it on server - it's done fully on client site.

I also used JavaScript to make some buttons work as anchor hrefs with use of
onclick redirecting to specific backend endpoints as windows location.

For planner, I saved plant_id on each object to enable removing, fertilizing and watering plants.
That's how backend knows which plant is to be removed, fertilized or watered.
